Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to work on the events and blogs area.
Let's jump into the action.
So right now I'm looking at the finished product that we're going to be building together.
And essentially this area on the home page, there's two columns split that has the most rapidly upcoming
events in the two latest blog posts.
So moving this over into the theme that we're building together, that's our focus for this lesson.
Now, due to the dynamic content that are in these areas, there are so many different ways that you
could approach this, and I don't want to just immediately jump in to the approach that I personally
am going to take.
So I want to first show you a few other options.
If you wanted to use more of the typical or default, you know, 2022 block theme approach.
So back in the template editor, for example, let me delete this other instance of the banner block.
What you could do is insert the WordPress default block type called columns.
There it is columns block, you know, and you could insert a 5052 column split.
And then let's look at what we're trying to build.
So events and blogs.
So for the blogs area, you could use the query loop block.
So on this column, you could click here, search for the query loop block.
You get the idea and you could sort of build that out.
However, to get this exact HTML and CSS output, well, that query loop block really wouldn't be an
option.
Also, I don't want to let my end users customize this layout.
We'll talk more about that angle in just a moment.
But let's look at the upcoming events area.
So you really couldn't use the query loop block for that area because the query that pulls in these
two events is too complex for the query loop.
BLOCK So yes, the query loop block can query just for a specific post type of events.
But then in our query, we need to look at today's date, make sure that the event date, not the posted
on date, but the event date of an event is in the future and then, you know, reverse order that for
the most rapidly approaching events.
So what you could do perhaps is use the WordPress columns block and then insert your own custom block
types for each area.
But even then, let me zoom out a little bit on the finished product.
You wouldn't get this design or layout where the background colors fill the full entire width, but
there's this inner max width area, right?
That's not the way that the WordPress default columns work.
Now, I experimented with this.
You can click on the columns area as a whole and then in the bottom right corner click advanced and
you could give your specific instance of this columns, block a class, and then you could get super
creative and target that class and write totally custom, you know, grid powered success to try to
recreate this exact layout.
Believe me, I went that route.
But then I realized that WordPress still has its own opinions about mobile media query breakpoints.
In other words, once the screen gets much smaller than this, I want that area to snap down to a single
column layout like this.
But WordPress has its own success opinions about its media query breakpoints.
So I guess long story short, here is early on when you're building a theme, you need to decide which
type of themed or building.
Are you trying to give the end user as much control as possible?
In other words, like the 2022 default theme where they can insert the date exactly where they want
it and, you know, say which font it should be and what font size it should be.
So really, are you building the type of theme that uses and relies on the default WordPress blocks,
or are you building something more custom and bespoke that has its own unique looking design and you
really need to control the HTML, CSS as custom queries, so on and so forth.
So try to make that decision early on.
And if you're going to build sort of a 2022 type theme, then you're going to be marrying yourself to
the WordPress CC Right.
And the way that their column system works, so on and so forth.
Personally, I don't want to marry myself to the WordPress CC, so I'm not going to use this columns
block whatsoever.
And really, if we take a step back and think about this area, if we look at the finished product,
I don't think there needs to be any interactivity whatsoever in the editor screen.
Let me explain.
So in our banner block, we absolutely wanted there to be interactivity, right?
We want the user to decide how many headers they want, how many buttons they want, the size, the
text content, the color of the button, so on and so forth.
But in this area, there's two columns split.
I don't really think there are any choice.
The user needs to make.
So it almost doesn't even need to be a block type.
However, I do want to make this a placeholder block type in the editor screen because you could imagine
that the user would want to include this on pages other than just the home page.
Right?
What if they wanted to include this content?
So this block I'm highlighting on an interior page or a generic single blogpost template or the archive
screen or the 404 screen.
Right.
I think there's a ton of value in making blocks available, even if there's nothing to customize or
change.
Sort of just a placeholder block.
And so that's what we're going to build in this lesson.
This is going to remain powered by PHP.
There's not going to be any admin JavaScript interactivity.
But the idea is that you can drag and drop it wherever you see fit.
Right.
Maybe the end user wants this to sit below the slideshow on the homepage.
Or maybe they don't want this area at all.
Hopefully my approach or my philosophy here makes sense.
If it doesn't, I think it will by the time we finish this lesson.
So where do we get started?
Well, let's actually begin in our functions dot AP file and I'll explain why.